Installation
============

*deface* has no dependencies outside Python's standard library. It does,
however, require **Python 3.9 or later**.

To install *deface* into your current Python environment, simply execute:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ pip install deface-social

That makes the ``deface`` command available in your shell. Try running it:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ deface -V
   deface 1.0.0


Use as Library
--------------

As long you comply by the terms of the license, you can also use *deface* as a
library within your own code. Notably, that enables you to use the model classes
for representing cleaned up and simplified posts. To this end, you install the
package just the same. Just remember to add the dependency to your project's
``requirements.txt`` or ``pyproject.toml``.


Modify deface
-------------

While *deface* has no runtime dependencies outside Python's standard library, it
does have several buildtime dependencies, e.g., for checking types, generating
documentation, and making a release. Consistent with `PEP 621
<https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0621/>`_, these dependencies are specified
in the ``project.optional-dependencies`` table of ``pyproject.toml``. You can
use any package manager supporting that convention, such as `flit
<https://github.com/takluyver/flit>`_, to install the dependencies.

You can also use the ``run.py`` script in the repository root. Unless you are
already running the script in a virtual environment, it automatically bootstraps
a virtual environment for the project and installs all necessary
development-only dependencies. From then on out, it ensures that Python scripts
execute within the virtual environment, even if the commands are not obviously
written in Python.

To find out more about supported commands and their options, please check out
``run.py``'s help message:

.. sphinx_argparse_cli::
   :module: run
   :func: create_parser
   :prog: run.py
   :title:
   :group_title_prefix:

**...**

If you try this yourself, you will see that ``run.py`` has commands for all
development tasks including making a release. It can also execute arbitrary
``python`` and ``pip`` invocations.

Despite all these features, ``run.py`` has *no* external dependencies (beyond
Python and pip) and comprises less than 400 well-documented and -structured
lines of code. Hence, if the need arises, you should be able to easily modify
existing commands or add entirely new ones.

Look for the ``@command`` decorator to register a function as implementation for
the eponymous command. The function can either accept no arguments — a so-called
*simple* command — or arbitrarily many positional arguments — implementing a
*special* command. In that case, ``run.py`` forwards all command line arguments
appearing after the command name as they are.
